1. Ditch Your Learning Style:  For example, if you’re trying to learn a new language, don’t just read the textbook. Watch TV shows, listen to music, and converse with a native person and find more realistic so our brain will try to grasp easily.

2. Make It More Meaningful for Yourself:  We all learned various facts and figures in school but how many of those do we actually remember? Only the information that was meaningful to us, that we’ve been able to connect to our own life and experiences.If you try to force yourself to just memorize random facts, you’re likely to forget them.try to understand what relevance it has in practice and how you can use it to your advantage. You'll find you're able to grasp the concepts much more quickly.

3.Learn by Doing:   Humans are natural learners—and we learn best when we perform the tasks we’re trying to learn.we will learn things by doing it. we all completed our colleges for approx-3to 4 years but we learned only 10% there but while we doing the work in real time we will learn 70 %.remaining 20% will learn attributable to learning from others as well as through feedback, coaching, and mentoring.  

4.Study the Greats, and Then Practice:one person- took some of the papers from The magazine and making short hints of the sentiment in each sentence, laid them by a few days, and then, without looking at the book, try’d to compleat the papers again, by expressing each hinted sentiment at length, and as fully as it had been expressed before, in any suitable words that should come to hand.

On comparing his work with the originals, he found where he was lacking, and started turning the tales into poems and then back again. This is how he learned to express himself better.Compare your work with that of experts in your field and you will notice areas that need improvement.

5.Teach What You Learn:  One of the more surprising ways you can learn a new skill is to teach it to someone else.

for eg: there are two sets of participants study the same passage, with different expectations. One group was expected to teach it later, the other one expected a test on it. At the end, both groups were eventually tested on the material. 

Guess which group did better?the one that expected to teach it.

when we learn with the intention to teach, we break the material down into simple, understandable chunks for ourselves. It also forces us to examine the topic more critically and thoroughly, helping us to understand it better.

6. Spend More Time Practicing Things You Find Difficult:  Practice in itself is great, but if you’re practicing things you know well, you’re doing it wrong. In order to excel at any skill, you need to push yourself out of your comfort zone and practice things you aren't good at.

we spent a lot of time improving areas they were weak. Additionally, we have to ask our friends or colleagues to find out where exactly we were lacking.

It is importance of concentration while practicing. If you’re practicing while your mind is all over the place, you’re not getting much out of it. Concentrate on whatever is most difficult for you, and with time you’ll find you achieve a higher level of overall efficiency

7. Find A Mentor: Mentorship is perhaps the quickest way to take your skills to the next level. A mentor helps you navigate your field by offering invaluable perspective and experience.

Though a true mentor may be difficult to find, it’s not impossible. If you have one in mind, start by building the relationship—just like you would anyone else.
Look for opportunities to be generous. Start small and see where it goes.

The key is starting—the worst a person can do is say no, so ask!
